README.md, before:

# Data Science Courses Offered at The University of Illinois

This list provides all known courses related to Data Science at The University of Illinois.


## Introduction to Data Science

- **STAT / CS / IS 107: Data Science Discovery**, 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/107), QR1 Gened
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: None.
  - Programming: Python (pandas, scikit-learn)
  - Website: [http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat107/](http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat107/)


### Non-GeEed Introduction-Level Courses

- **IS 457: Introduction to Data Science**, 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/IS/457)
  - Lecture Only; Restricted to Informatics Minors; Prerequisites: None.
  - Programming: R and HTML

- **INFO 490, Section MH: Intro to Prog for Data Science**, 3 CR ONLINE, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/INFO/490)
  - Online Section; Prerequisites: None.
  - Programming: Python


## Connector Courses

These courses provide a deeper Data Science experience and require basic Data Science skills as prerequisites.

- **ATMS 207: Weather and Climate Data Science**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/ATMS/207)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: STAT 107 recommended.
  - Programming: Python

- **STAT 207: Data Science Exploration**, 4 CR, [PILOT in Fall 2020 as STAT 200, Section DS](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/200)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: STAT 107.
  - Programming: Python
  - Website: [http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat207/](http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat207/)


## Data Science Related Courses

### Programming-Focused Courses

Programming skills are a fundamental part of Data Science.  Several courses provide an introduction to programming skills:

- **CS 101: Intro Computing: Engrg & Sci**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/101)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: MATH 220 or 221 (Calculus I)
  - Programming: Python + Matlab
  - Website: [https://relate.cs.illinois.edu/course/cs101-sp20/](https://relate.cs.illinois.edu/course/cs101-sp20/)

- **CS 105: Intro Computing: Non-Tech**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/105)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: MATH 112 (Algebra)
  - Programming: Python + Excel
  - Website: [https://pages.github-dev.cs.illinois.edu/cs-105/web/](https://pages.github-dev.cs.illinois.edu/cs-105/web/)

- **CS 125: Intro to Computer Science**, 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/125)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: MATH 112 (Algebra)
  - Programming: Java + Android
  - Website: [https://cs125.cs.illinois.edu/](https://cs125.cs.illinois.edu/)


### Business Analytics Courses

Business analytics is critical to understanding interesting questions to answer with Data Science.  Courses focusing on business analytics:

- **BADM 210: Business Analytics I**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/BADM/210)
  - Lecture Only; Restricted to Gies College of Buinsess; Prerequisites: None.

- **BADM 211: Business Analytics II**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/BADM/211)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Restricted to Gies College of Buinsess; Prerequisites: BADM 210.


### Machine Learning Courses

Machine learning is a foundational piece of Data Science.  Courses focusing on machine learning include:

- **CS 446: Machine Learning**, 3 or 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/446)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: CS 225 (Data Structures) and MATH 225 or 415 (Linear Algebra)

- **CS 498, Section AML:Applied Machine Learning**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/498)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: A course in probability or statistics, a course in linear algebra, and some programming experience

Commit message:

add first batch of statistics courses

README.md, after:

# Data Science Courses Offered at The University of Illinois

This list provides all known courses related to Data Science at The University of Illinois.


## Introduction to Data Science

- **STAT / CS / IS 107: Data Science Discovery**, 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/107), QR1 Gened
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: None.
  - Programming: Python (pandas, scikit-learn)
  - Website: [http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat107/](http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat107/)


### Non-GeEed Introduction-Level Courses

- **IS 457: Introduction to Data Science**, 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/IS/457)
  - Lecture Only; Restricted to Informatics Minors; Prerequisites: None.
  - Programming: R and HTML

- **INFO 490, Section MH: Intro to Prog for Data Science**, 3 CR ONLINE, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/INFO/490)
  - Online Section; Prerequisites: None.
  - Programming: Python


## Connector Courses

These courses provide a deeper Data Science experience and require basic Data Science skills as prerequisites.

- **ATMS 207: Weather and Climate Data Science**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/ATMS/207)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: STAT 107 recommended.
  - Programming: Python

- **STAT 207: Data Science Exploration**, 4 CR, [PILOT in Fall 2020 as STAT 200, Section DS](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/200)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: STAT 107.
  - Programming: Python
  - Website: [http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat207/](http://courses.las.illinois.edu/spring2020/stat207/)


## Data Science Related Courses

### Programming-Focused Courses

Programming skills are a fundamental part of Data Science.  Several courses provide an introduction to programming skills:

- **CS 101: Intro Computing: Engrg & Sci**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/101)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: MATH 220 or 221 (Calculus I)
  - Programming: Python + Matlab
  - Website: [https://relate.cs.illinois.edu/course/cs101-sp20/](https://relate.cs.illinois.edu/course/cs101-sp20/)

- **CS 105: Intro Computing: Non-Tech**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/105)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: MATH 112 (Algebra)
  - Programming: Python + Excel
  - Website: [https://pages.github-dev.cs.illinois.edu/cs-105/web/](https://pages.github-dev.cs.illinois.edu/cs-105/web/)

- **CS 125: Intro to Computer Science**, 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/125)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Prerequisites: MATH 112 (Algebra)
  - Programming: Java + Android
  - Website: [https://cs125.cs.illinois.edu/](https://cs125.cs.illinois.edu/)

- **STAT 385: Statistics Programming Methods**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/385)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: STAT 200 or STAT 212
  - Programming: R
  
- **STAT 430: Data Science Programming Methods**, 3 or 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/430)
  - Online Section; Prerequisites: STAT 410, STAT 420, and STAT 425 or consent of instructor
  - Programming: R, SQL, C++

### Business Analytics Courses

Business analytics is critical to understanding interesting questions to answer with Data Science.  Courses focusing on business analytics:

- **BADM 210: Business Analytics I**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/BADM/210)
  - Lecture Only; Restricted to Gies College of Buinsess; Prerequisites: None.

- **BADM 211: Business Analytics II**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/BADM/211)
  - Lecture + Lab Section; Restricted to Gies College of Buinsess; Prerequisites: BADM 210.


### Machine Learning Courses

Machine learning is a foundational piece of Data Science.  Courses focusing on machine learning include:

- **CS 446: Machine Learning**, 3 or 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/446)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: CS 225 (Data Structures) and MATH 225 or 415 (Linear Algebra)

- **CS 498, Section AML: Applied Machine Learning**, 3 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/CS/498)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: A course in probability or statistics, a course in linear algebra, and some programming experience

- **STAT 432: Basics of Statistical Learning**, 3 or 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/432)
  - Online Section; Prerequisites: STAT 400, and either STAT 420 or STAT 425
  - Programming: R
  - Website: [https://stat432.org/](https://stat432.org/)

- **STAT 542: Statistical Learning**, 4 CR, [Offered in Fall 2020](https://courses.illinois.edu/schedule/2020/fall/STAT/542)
  - Lecture Only; Prerequisites: STAT 410 and STAT 425
